** The Project Gutenberg Etext of the 1995 CIA World Factbook **

Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.


**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*

Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
further information is included below.  We need your donations.


The 1995 CIA World Factbook

June, 1996 [Etext #571]


**The Project Gutenberg Etext of the 1995 CIA World Factbook**
*****This file should be named world95.txt or world95.zip*****

Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, world951.txt.
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, world95a.txt.


This etext was created by Dr. Gregory B. Newby.  Newby works as
faculty at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, home
town to Project Gutenberg.  This etext is based entirely on the
version made available by the print publishers, and was derived
from files accessed at the World Wide Web site, except for some
image files (maps) as described at the etext appendix.  The WWW
address is: http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/95fact/.


We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, for time for better editing.

Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final till
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
new copy has at least one byte more or less.


Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
fifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-two text
files per month:  or 400 more Etexts in 1996 for a total of 800.
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
total should reach 80 billion Etexts.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only 10% of the present number of computer users.  2001
should have at least twice as many computer users as that, so it
will require us reaching less than 5% of the users in 2001.


We need your donations more than ever!


All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is Illinois
Benedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
to IBC, too)

For these and other matters, please mail to:

Project Gutenberg
P. O. Box  2782
Champaign, IL 61825

When all other email fails try our Executive Director:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>

We would prefer to send you this information by email
(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).

******
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]

You may also access the content through a World Wide Web client
at the same address as: http://uiarchive.cso.uiuc.edu/pub/etext

ftp uiarchive.cso.uiuc.edu
login:  anonymous
password:  your@login
cd pub/etext/gutenberg
cd etext/etext90 through /etext96
or cd etext/articles [get suggest.gut for more information]
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set binary for zip files]
GET INDEX?00.GUT
for a list of books
and
GET NEW.GUT for general information
and
MGET GUT* for newsletters.

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
(Three Pages)


***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from.  If you received this etext on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Illinois Benedictine College (the "Project").  Among other
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from.  If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy.  If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
     cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author, and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
     net profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Association / Illinois
     Benedictine College" within the 60 days following each
     date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
     your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Illinois Benedictine College".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*





**The Project Gutenberg Etext of the 1995 CIA World Factbook**





To search for information on a specific country from the list below,
search for @country:  @Afganistan, for example.  You can also search
directly for one of the categories of that country as follows:

@Albania:Geography
@Albania:People
@Albania:Government
@Albania:Transportation
@Albania:Communications
@Albania:Defense Forces




TABLE OF CONTENTS

Publication Information
Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Arctic Ocean
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Atlantic Ocean
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan

The Bahamas
Bahrain
Baker Island
Bangladesh
Barbados
Bassas da India
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian OceanTerritory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina
Burma
Burundi

Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Coral Sea Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic

Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic 

Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europa Island

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands

Gabon
The Gambia
Gaza Strip
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Glorioso Islands
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana

Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City)
Honduras
Hong Kong
Howland Island
Hungary

Iceland
India
Indian Ocean
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel (also see separate Gaza Strip and West Bank entries)
Italy

Jamaica
Jan Mayen
Japan
Jarvis Island
Jersey
Johnston Atoll
Jordan (also see separate West Bank entry)
Juan de Nova Island

Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kingman Reef
Kiribati
Korea, North
Korea, South
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan

Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg

Macau
Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Man, Isle of
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Midway Islands
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique

Namibia
Nauru
Navassa Island
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway

Oman

Pacific Ocean
Pakistan
Palau
Palmyra Atoll
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paracel Islands
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico

Qatar

Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda

Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia and Montenegro
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Spain
Spratly Islands
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria

Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tromelin Island
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu

Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan

Vanuatu
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands

Wake Island
Wallis and Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara
Western Samoa
World

Yemen

Zaire
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Appendices
  
A. The United Nations System (a graphical file not available in the
	Project Gutenberg edition)
B. Abbreviations for International Organizations and Groups
C. International Organizations and Groups
D. Abbreviations for Selected International Environmental Agreements
E. Selected International Environmental Agreements
F. Weights and Measures
G. Estimates of Gross Domestic Product on an Exchange Rate Basis
H. Cross-Reference List of Geographic Items


________________________________________________________________________

Publication Information for The World Factbook 1995
 
 The printed version of the Factbook is published annually in July by
 the Central Intelligence Agency for the use of US Government
 officials, and the style, format, coverage, and content are designed
 to meet their specific requirements. Information was provided by the
 American Geophysical Union, Bureau of the Census, Central Intelligence
 Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Mapping Agency, Defense
 Nuclear Agency, Department of State, Foreign Broadcast Information
 Service, Maritime Administration, National Science Foundation (Polar
 Information Program), Naval Maritime Intelligence Center, Office of
 Territorial and International Affairs, US Board on Geographic Names,
 US Coast Guard, and others.
 
 Comments and queries are welcome and may be addressed to:
 
 Central Intelligence Agency
 Attn.: Office of Public and Agency Information
 Washington, DC 20505
 Telephone: [1] (703) 351-2053
 
 US Government officials should obtain copies of The World Factbook
 directly from their own organization or through liaison channels from
 the Central Intelligence Agency. This publication is also available in
 microfiche, magnetic tape, or computer diskettes.
 
 This publication may be purchased by telephone (VISA or MasterCard) or
        mail from:
        
 Superintendent of Documents 
 P.O. Box 371954
 Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954
 Telephone: [1] (202) 512-1800
 
 A subscription to this publication may be purchased from:
        
 Document Expediting (DOCEX) Project
 Exchange and Gift Division
 Library of Congress
 Washington, DC 20540
 Telephone: [1] (202) 707-9527
        
 
 This publication may be purchased in printed form, photocopy,
        microfiche, magnetic tape, or computer diskettes from:
        
 National Technical Information Service 
 5285 Port Royal Road
 Springfield, VA 22161 
 Telephone: [1] (703) 487-4650
        
 This publication may be purchased in photocopy or microform from:
        
 Photoduplication Service Library of Congress 
 Washington, DC 20540-5234
 Telephone: [1] (202) 707-5640 


________________________________________________________________________

                 NOTES, DEFINITIONS, AND ABBREVIATIONS

There have been some significant changes in this edition. The Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands became the independent nation of
Palau. The gross domestic product (GDP) of all countries is now
presented on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis rather than on the
old exchange rate basis. There is a new entry on Age structure and the
Airports entry now includes unpaved runways. The Communications
category has been restructured and now includes the entries of
Telephone system, Radio, and Television. The remainder of the entries
in the former Communications category-Railroads, Highways, Inland
waterways, Pipelines, Ports, Merchant marine, and Airports-can now be
found under a new category called Transportation. There is a new
appendix listing estimates of gross domestic product on an exchange
rate basis for all nations. A reference map of the Republic of South
Africa is included. The electronic files used to produce the Factbook
have been restructured into a database. As a result, the formats of
some entries in this edition have been changed. Additional changes
will occur in the 1996 Factbook.

Abbreviations: (see Appendix B for abbreviations for international
organizations and groups and Appendix D for abbreviations for selected
international environmental agreements)
avdp. -- avoirdupois
    c.i.f. -- cost, insurance, and freight
    CY -- calendar year
    DWT -- deadweight ton
    est. -- estimate
    Ex-Im -- Export-Import Bank of the United States
    f.o.b. -- free on board
    FRG -- Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany); used for
    information dated before 3 October 1990 or CY91
    FSU -- former Soviet Union
    FY -- fiscal year
    FYROM -- The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
    GDP -- gross domestic product
    GDR -- German Democratic Republic (East Germany); used for
    information dated before 3 October 1990 or CY91
    GNP -- gross national product
    GRT -- gross register ton
    GWP -- gross world product
    km -- kilometer
    kW -- kilowatt
    kWh -- kilowatt hour
    m -- meter
    NA -- not available
    NEGL -- negligible
    nm -- nautical mile
    NZ -- New Zealand
    ODA -- official development assistance
    OOF -- other official flows
    PDRY -- People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or
    South Yemen]; used for information dated before 22 May 1990 or
    CY91
    sq km -- square kilometer
    sq mi -- square mile
    UAE -- United Arab Emirates
    UK -- United Kingdom
    US -- United States
    USSR -- Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union); used
    for information dated before 25 December 1991
    YAR -- Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen]; used
    for information dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91
    
Administrative divisions: The numbers, designatory terms, and
first-order administrative divisions are generally those approved by
the US Board on Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been
reported but not yet acted on by BGN are noted.

Airports: Only airports with usable runways are included in this
listing. For airports with more than one runway, only the longest
runway is included. Not all airports have facilities for refueling,
maintenance, or air traffic control. Paved runways have concrete or
asphalt surfaces; unpaved runways have grass, dirt, sand, or gravel
surfaces.

Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines. Land area is the aggregate
of all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or
coastlines, excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers).
Comparative areas are based on total area equivalents. Most entities
are compared with the entire US or one of the 50 states. The smaller
entities are compared with Washington, DC (178 sq km, 69 sq mi) or The
Mall in Washington, DC (0.59 sq km, 0.23 sq mi, 146 acres).

Birth rate: The average annual number of births during a year per
1,000 population at midyear; also known as crude birth rate. Dates of
information: In general, information available as of 1 January 1995 is
used in the preparation of this edition. Population figures are
estimates for 1 July 1995, with population growth rates estimated for
calendar year 1995. Major political events have been updated through
April 1995.

Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per
l,000 population at midyear; also known as crude death rate.

Digraphs: The digraph is a two-letter "country code" that precisely
identifies every entity without overlap, duplication, or omission. AF,
for example, is the digraph for Afghanistan. It is a standardized
geopolitical data element promulgated in the Federal Information
Processing Standards Publication (FIPS) 10-3 by the National Bureau of
Standards (now called National Institute of Standards and Technology)
at the US Department of Commerce and maintained by the Office of the
Geographer at the US Department of State. The digraph is used to
eliminate confusion and incompatibility in the collection, processing,
and dissemination of area-specific data and is particularly useful for
interchanging data between databases.

Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations
with 184 nations, including 178 of the 185 UN members (excluded UN
members are Bhutan, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, former Yugoslavia,
and the US itself). In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with
6 nations that are not in the UN - Holy See, Kiribati, Nauru,
Switzerland, Tonga, and Tuvalu.

Economic aid: This entry refers to bilateral commitments of official
development assistance (ODA) and other official flows (OOF). ODA is
defined as financial assistance which is concessional in character,
has the main objective to promote economic development and welfare of
LDCs, and contains a grant element of at least 25%. OOF transactions
are also official government assistance, but with a main objective
other than development and with a grant element less than 25%. OOF
transactions include official export credits (such as Ex-Im Bank
credits), official equity and portfolio investment, and debt
reorganization by the official sector that does not meet concessional
terms. Aid is considered to have been committed when agreements are
initialed by the parties involved and constitute a formal declaration
of intent.

Entities: Some of the nations, dependent areas, areas of special
sovereignty, and governments included in this publication are not
independent, and others are not officially recognized by the US
Government. "Nation" refers to a people politically organized into a
sovereign state with a definite territory. "Dependent area" refers to
a broad category of political entities that are associated in some way
with a nation. Names used for page headings are usually the short-form
names as approved by the US Board on Geographic Names. There are 266
entities in The World Factbook that may be categorized as follows:

NATIONS
184 -- UN members (excluding the former Yugoslavia, which is still
    counted by the UN)
    7 -- nations that are not members of the UN--Holy See, Kiribati,
    Nauru, Serbia and Montenegro, Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu

OTHER
1 -- Taiwan

DEPENDENT AREAS
6 -- Australia--Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
    (Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald
    Islands, Norfolk Island
    2 -- Denmark--Faroe Islands, Greenland
    16 -- France--Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island,
    French Guiana, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic
    Lands, Glorioso Islands, Guadeloupe, Juan de Nova Island,
    Martinique, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Reunion, Saint Pierre and
    Miquelon, Tromelin Island, Wallis and Futuna
    2 -- Netherlands--Aruba, Netherlands Antilles
    3 -- New Zealand--Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau
    3 -- Norway--Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard
    1 -- Portugal--Macau
    16 -- United Kingdom--Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean
    Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland
    Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Hong Kong, Jersey, Isle of Man,
    Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, South Georgia and the
    South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands
    14 -- United States--American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland
    Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway
    Islands, Navassa Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll,
    Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Wake Island

MISCELLANEOUS
6 -- Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West
    Bank, Western Sahara

OTHER ENTITIES
4 -- oceans--Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean
    
    1 -- World
    266 -- total

Exchange rate: 
The official value of a nation's monetary unit at a given date or over
a given period of time, as expressed in units of local currency per US
dollar and as determined by international market forces or official
fiat.

GDP methodology: In the "Economy" section, GDP dollar estimates for
all countries are derived from purchasing power parity (PPP)
calculations rather than from conversions at official currency
exchange rates. The PPP method normally involves the use of
international dollar price weights, which are applied to the
quantities of goods and services produced in a given economy. In
addition to the lack of reliable data from the majority of countries,
the statistician faces a major difficulty in specifying, identifying,
and allowing for the quality of goods and services. The division of a
GDP estimate in local currency by the corresponding PPP estimate in
dollars gives the PPP conversion rate. On average, one thousand
dollars will buy the same market basket of goods in the US as one
thousand dollars - converted to the local currency at the PPP
conversion rate - will buy in the other country. Whereas PPP estimates
for OECD countries are quite reliable, PPP estimates for developing
countries are often rough approximations. Most of the GDP estimates
are based on extrapolation of numbers published by the UN
International Comparison Program and by Professors Robert Summers and
Alan Heston of the University of Pennsylvania and their colleagues.
Currency exchange rates depend on a variety of international and
domestic financial forces that often have little relation to domestic
output. In developing countries with weak currencies the exchange rate
estimate of GDP in dollars is typically one-fourth to one-half the PPP
estimate. Furthermore, exchange rates may suddenly go up or down by
10% or more because of market forces or official fiat whereas real
output has remained unchanged. On 12 January 1994, for example, the 14
countries of the African Financial Community (whose currencies are
tied to the French franc) devalued their currencies by 50%. This move,
of course, did not cut the real output of these countries by half. One
important caution: the proportion of, say, defense expenditures as a
percentage of GDP in local currency accounts may differ substantially
from the proportion when GDP accounts are expressed in PPP terms, as,
for example, when an observer tries to estimate the dollar level of
Russian or Japanese military expenditures. Note: The numbers for GDP
and other economic data can not be chained together from successive
volumes of the Factbook because of changes in the US dollar measuring
rod, revisions of data by statistical agencies, use of new or
different sources of information, and changes in national statistical
methods and practices.

Gross domestic product (GDP): The value of all final goods and
services produced within a nation in a given year.

Gross national product (GNP): The value of all final goods and
services produced within a nation in a given year, plus income earned
abroad, minus income earned by foreigners from domestic production.

Gross world product (GWP): The aggregate value of all goods and
services produced worldwide in a given year.

Growth rate (population): The annual percent change in the population,
resulting from a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the
balance of migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate may be
positive or negative.

Illicit drugs: There are five categories of illicit drugs - narcotics,
stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and cannabis.
These categories include many drugs legally produced and prescribed by
doctors as well as those illegally produced and sold outside medical
channels.
Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana
(pot, Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC,
Marinol), hashish (hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).
Coca (Erythroxylum coca) is a bush, and the leaves contain the
stimulant used to make cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with cocoa,
which comes from cacao seeds and is used in making chocolate, cocoa,
and cocoa butter.
Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.
Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety and
include chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal,
phenobarbital), benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone
(Quaalude), glutethimide (Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl,
Valmid). Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical,
mental, emotional, or behavioral change in an individual. Drug abuse
is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance that results in
physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment in an
individual. Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking,
self-awareness, and emotion. Hallucinogens include LSD (acid,
microdot), mescaline and peyote (mexc, buttons, cactus), amphetamine
variants (PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP, angel dust, hog),
phencyclidine analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others (psilocybin,
psilocyn).
Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant
(Cannabis sativa).
Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.
Mandrax is the Southwest Asian slang term for methaqualone, a
pharmaceutical depressant.
Marijuana is the dried leaves of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).
Methaqualone is a pharmaceutical depressant, in slang referred to as
Quaaludes in North America or Mandrax in Southwest Asia Narcotics are
drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer to opium, opium
derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural narcotics include
opium (paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol),
codeine (Tylenol with codeine, Empirin with codeine, Robitussan AC),
and thebaine. Semisynthetic narcotics include heroin (horse, smack),
and hydromorphone (Dilaudid). Synthetic narcotics include meperidine
or Pethidine (Demerol, Mepergan), methadone (Dolophine, Methadose),
and others (Darvon, Lomotil).
Opium is the milky exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod of the opium
poppy. Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for many natural
and semisynthetic narcotics. Poppy straw concentrate is the alkaloid
derived from the mature dried opium poppy.
Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of catha edulis
that is chewed or drunk as tea.
Quaaludes is the North American slang term for methaqualone, a
pharmaceutical depressant.
Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy and
activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines
(Desoxyn, Dexedrine), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate
(Ritalin), and others (Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).

Infant mortality rate: The number of deaths to infants under one year
old in a given year per l,000 live births occurring in the same year.

International disputes: This category includes a wide variety of
situations that range from traditional bilateral boundary disputes to
unilateral claims of one sort or another. Information regarding
disputes over international boundaries and maritime boundaries has
been reviewed by the Department of State. References to other
situations involving borders or frontiers may also be included, such
as resource disputes, geopolitical questions, or irredentist issues.
However, inclusion does not necessarily constitute official acceptance
or recognition by the US Government.

Irrigated land: The figure refers to the land area that is
artificially supplied with water.

Land use: The land surface is categorized as arable land - land
cultivated for crops that are replanted after each harvest (wheat,
maize, rice); permanent crops - land cultivated for crops that are not
replanted after each harvest (citrus, coffee, rubber); meadows and
pastures - land permanently used for herbaceous forage crops; forest
and woodland - under dense or open stands of trees; and other - any
land type not specifically mentioned above (urban areas, roads,
desert).

Leaders: The chief of state is the titular leader of the country who
represents the state at official and ceremonial functions but is not
involved with the day- to-day activities of the government. The head
of government is the administrative leader who manages the day-to-day
activities of the government. In the UK, the monarch is the chief of
state, and the Prime Minister is the head of government. In the US,
the President is both the chief of state and the head of government.

Life expectancy at birth: The average number of years to be lived by a
group of people all born in the same year, if mortality at each age
remains constant in the future.

Literacy: There are no universal definitions and standards of
literacy. Unless otherwise noted, all rates are based on the most
common definition - the ability to read and write at a specified age.
Detailing the standards that individual countries use to assess the
ability to read and write is beyond the scope of this publication.

Maritime claims: The proximity of neighboring states may prevent some
national claims from being extended the full distance.

Merchant marine: All ships engaged in the carriage of goods. All
commercial vessels (as opposed to all nonmilitary ships), which
excludes tugs, fishing vessels, offshore oil rigs, etc. Also, a
grouping of merchant ships by nationality or register.
Captive register - A register of ships maintained by a territory,
possession, or colony primarily or exclusively for the use of ships
owned in the parent country; also referred to as an offshore register,
the offshore equivalent of an internal register. Ships on a captive
register will fly the same flag as the parent country, or a local
variant of it, but will be subject to the maritime laws and taxation
rules of the offshore territory. Although the nature of a captive
register makes it especially desirable for ships owned in the parent
country, just as in the internal register, the ships may also be owned
abroad. The captive register then acts as a flag of convenience
register, except that it is not the register of an independent state.
Flag of convenience register - A national register offering
registration to a merchant ship not owned in the flag state. The major
flags of convenience (FOC) attract ships to their registers by virtue
of low fees, low or nonexistent taxation of profits, and liberal
manning requirements. True FOC registers are characterized by having
relatively few of the ships registered actually owned in the flag
state. Thus, while virtually any flag can be used for ships under a
given set of circumstances, an FOC register is one where the majority
of the merchant fleet is owned abroad. It is also referred to as an
open register.
Flag state - The nation in which a ship is registered and which holds
legal jurisdiction over operation of the ship, whether at home or
abroad. Flag state maritime legislation determines how a ship is
manned and taxed and whether a foreign-owned ship may be placed on the
register.
Internal register - A register of ships maintained as a subset of a
national register. Ships on the internal register fly the national
flag and have that nationality but are subject to a separate set of
maritime rules from those on the main national register. These
differences usually include lower taxation of profits, manning by
foreign nationals, and, usually, ownership outside the flag state
(when it functions as an FOC register). The Norwegian International
Ship Register and Danish International Ship Register are the most
notable examples of an internal register. Both have been instrumental
in stemming flight from the national flag to flags of convenience and
in attracting foreign owned ships to the Norwegian and Danish flags.
Merchant ship - A vessel that carries goods against payment of
freight; commonly used to denote any nonmilitary ship but accurately
restricted to commercial vessels only.
Register - The record of a ship's ownership and nationality as listed
with the maritime authorities of a country; also, the compendium of
such individual ships' registrations. Registration of a ship provides
it with a nationality and makes it subject to the laws of the country
in which registered (the flag state) regardless of the nationality of
the ship's ultimate owner.

Money figures: All money figures are expressed in contemporaneous US
dollars unless otherwise indicated.

National product: The total output of goods and services in a country
in a given year. See GDP methodology, Gross domestic product (GDP),
and Gross national product (GNP).

Net migration rate: The balance between the number of persons entering
and leaving a country during the year per 1,000 persons (based on
midyear population). An excess of persons entering the country is
referred to as net immigration (3.56 migrants/1,000 population); an
excess of persons leaving the country as net emigration (-9.26
migrants/1,000 population).

Population: Figures are estimates from the Bureau of the Census based
on statistics from population censuses, vital statistics registration
systems, or sample surveys pertaining to the recent past, and on
assumptions about future trends. Starting with the 1993 Factbook,
demographic estimates for some countries (mostly African) have taken
into account the effects of the growing incidence of AIDS infections;
in 1993 these countries were Burkina, Burundi, Central African
Republic, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Tanzania,
Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Thailand, Brazil, and Haiti.

Telephone numbers: All telephone numbers presented in the Factbook
consist of the country code in brackets, the city or area code (where
required) in parentheses, and the local number. The one component that
is not presented is the international access code which varies from
country to country. For example, an international direct dial phone
call placed from the United States to Madrid, Spain, would be as
follows:

    011 [34] (1) 577-xxxx where
    011 is the international access code for station-to-station calls
    (01 is for calls other than station-to-station calls),
    [34] is the country code for Spain,
    (1) is the city code for Madrid,
    577 is the local exchange,
    and xxxx is the local telephone number.
    
An international direct dial phone call placed from another country to
the United States would be as follows:

international access code + [1] (202) 939-xxxx where
    [1] is the country code for the United States,
    (202) is the area code for Washington, DC,
    939 is the local exchange,
    and xxxx is the local telephone number.

Total fertility rate: The average number of children that would be
born per woman if all women lived to the end of their childbearing
years and bore children according to a given fertility rate at each
age. Years: All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless
indicated as fiscal year (FY). FY93/94 refers to the fiscal year that
began in calendar year 1993 and ended in calendar year 1994 as defined
in the Fiscal Year entry of the Economy section for each nation.
FY90-94 refers to the four fiscal years that began in calendar year
1990 and ended in calendar year 1994.

Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from
material in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence
Community estimates. The Handbook of International Economic
Statistics, published annually in September by the Central
Intelligence Agency, contains detailed economic information for the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
countries, Eastern Europe, the newly independent republics of the
former nations of Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union, and selected other
countries. The Handbook can be obtained wherever The World Factbook is
available.


________________________________________________________________________

ALBANIA

@Albania:Geography

 Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian
 Sea, between Greece and Serbia and Montenegro

 Map references: Ethnic Groups in Eastern Europe, Europe

 Area:
 total area: 28,750 sq km
 land area: 27,400 sq km
 comparative area: slightly larger than Maryland

 Land boundaries: total 720 km, Greece 282 km, The Former Yugoslav
 Republic of Macedonia 151 km, Serbia and Montenegro 287 km (114 km
 with Serbia, 173 km with Montenegro)

 Coastline: 362 km

 Maritime claims:
 continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation
 territorial sea: 12 nm

 International disputes: the Albanian Government supports protection of
 the rights of ethnic Albanians outside of its borders; Albanian
 majority in Kosovo seeks independence from Serbian Republic; Albanians
 in Macedonia claim discrimination in education, access to public
 sector jobs and representation in government; Albania is involved in a
 bilaterlal dispute with Greece over border demarcation, the treatment
 of Albania's ethnic Greek minority, and migrant Albanian workers in
 Greece

 Climate: mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry
 summers; interior is cooler and wetter

 Terrain: mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast

 Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper,
 timber, nickel

 Land use:
 arable land: 21%
 permanent crops: 4%
 meadows and pastures: 15%
 forest and woodland: 38%
 other: 22%

 Irrigated land: 4,230 sq km (1989)

 Environment:
 current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution from
 industrial and domestic effluents
 natural hazards: destructive earthquakes; tsunami occur along
 southwestern coast
 international agreements: party to - Biodiversity, Climate Change

 Note: strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links Adriatic Sea
 to Ionian Sea and Mediterranean Sea)

@Albania:People

 Population: 3,413,904 (July 1995 est.)
 note: IMF, working with Albanian government figures, estimates the
 population at 3,120,000 in 1993 and that the population has fallen
 since 1990

 Age structure:
 0-14 years: 32% (female 520,186; male 563,953)
 15-64 years: 62% (female 1,026,321; male 1,104,371)
 65 years and over: 6% (female 112,252; male 86,821) (July 1995 est.)

 Population growth rate: 1.16% (1995 est.)

 Birth rate: 21.7 births/1,000 population (1995 est.)

 Death rate: 5.22 deaths/1,000 population (1995 est.)

 Net migration rate: -4.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (1995 est.)

 Infant mortality rate: 28.1 deaths/1,000 live births (1995 est.)

 Life expectancy at birth:
 total population: 73.81 years
 male: 70.83 years
 female: 77.02 years (1995 est.)

 Total fertility rate: 2.71 children born/woman (1995 est.)

 Nationality:
 noun: Albanian(s)
 adjective: Albanian

 Ethnic divisions: Albanian 95%, Greeks 3%, other 2% (Vlachs, Gypsies,
 Serbs, and Bulgarians) (1989 est.)

 Religions: Muslim 70%, Albanian Orthodox 20%, Roman Catholic 10%
 note: all mosques and churches were closed in 1967 and religious
 observances prohibited; in November 1990, Albania began allowing
 private religious practice

 Languages: Albanian (Tosk is the official dialect), Greek

 Literacy: age 9 and over can read and write (1955)
 total population: 72%
 male: 80%
 female: 63%

 Labor force: 1.5 million (1987)
 by occupation: agriculture 60%, industry and commerce 40% (1986)

@Albania:Government

 Names:
 conventional long form: Republic of Albania
 conventional short form: Albania
 local long form: Republika e Shqiperise
 local short form: Shqiperia
 former: People's Socialist Republic of Albania

 Digraph: AL

 Type: emerging democracy

 Capital: Tirane

 Administrative divisions: 26 districts (rrethe, singular - rreth);
 Berat, Dibre, Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Gjirokaster, Gramsh, Kolonje,
 Korce, Kruje, Kukes, Lezhe, Librazhd, Lushnje, Mat, Mirdite, Permet,
 Pogradec, Puke, Sarande, Shkoder, Skrapar, Tepelene, Tirane, Tropoje,
 Vlore

 Independence: 28 November 1912 (from Ottoman Empire)

 National holiday: Independence Day, 28 November (1912)

 Constitution: an interim basic law was approved by the People's
 Assembly on 29 April 1991; a draft constitution was rejected by
 popular referendum in the fall of 1994 and a new draft is pending

 Legal system: has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

 Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

 Executive branch:
 chief of state: President of the Republic Sali BERISHA (since 9 April
 1992)
 head of government: Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers
 Aleksander Gabriel MEKSI (since 10 April 1992)
 cabinet: Council of Ministers; appointed by the president

 Legislative branch: unicameral
 People's Assembly (Kuvendi Popullor): elections last held 22 March
 1992; results - DP 62.29%, ASP 25.57%, SDP 4.33%, RP 3.15%, UHP 2.92%,
 other 1.74%; seats - (140 total) DP 92, ASP 38, SDP 7, RP 1, UHP 2
 note: 6 members of the Democratic Party defected making the present
 seating in the Assembly DP 86, ASP 38, SDP 7, DAP 6, RP 1, UHP 2

 Judicial branch: Supreme Court

 Political parties and leaders: there are at least 28 political
 parties; most prominent are the Albanian Socialist Party (ASP;
 formerly the Albania Workers Party), Fatos NANO, first secretary;
 Democratic Party (DP); Albanian Republican Party (RP), Sabri GODO;
 Omonia (Greek minority party), Sotir QIRJAZATI, first secretary;
 Social Democratic Party (SDP), Skender GJINUSHI; Democratic Alliance
 Party (DAP), Neritan CEKA, chairman; Unity for Human Rights Party
 (UHP), Vasil MELO, chairman; Ecology Party (EP), Namik HOTI, chairman

 Member of: BSEC, CCC, CE (guest), EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
 ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, INTELSAT
 (nonsignatory user), INTERPOL, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NACC, OIC, OSCE,
 UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

 Diplomatic representation in US:
 chief of mission: Ambassador Lublin Hasan DILJA
 chancery: Suite 1010, 1511 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20005
 telephone: [1] (202) 223-4942, 8187
 FAX: [1] (202) 628-7342

 US diplomatic representation:
 chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph E. LAKE
 embassy: Rruga E. Elbansanit 103, Tirane
 mailing address: PSC 59, Box 100 (A), APO AE 09624
 telephone: [355] (42) 328-75, 335-20
 FAX: [355] (42) 322-22

 Flag: red with a black two-headed eagle in the center

Economy

 Overview: An extremely poor country by European standards, Albania is
 making the difficult transition to a more open-market economy. The
 economy rebounded in 1993-94 after a severe depression accompanying
 the collapse of the previous centrally planned system in 1990 and
 1991. Stabilization policies - including a strict monetary policy,
 public sector layoffs, and reduced social services - have improved the
 government's fiscal situation and reduced inflation. The recovery was
 spurred by the remittances of some 20% of the population which works
 abroad, mostly in Greece and Italy. These remittances supplement GDP
 and help offset the large foreign trade deficit. Foreign assistance
 and humanitarian aid also supported the recovery. Most agricultural
 land was privatized in 1992, substantially improving peasant incomes.
 Albania's limited industrial sector, now less than one-sixth of GDP,
 continued to decline in 1994. A sharp fall in chromium prices reduced
 hard currency receipts from the mining sector. Large segments of the
 population, especially those living in urban areas, continue to depend
 on humanitarian aid to meet basic food requirements. Unemployment
 remains a severe problem accounting for approxima